---
layout: post
category: Misc     
title: Vim memo  
tagline: by SunHaozhe
tags: 
  - memo 
mathjax: true
comments: true
published: true
---

# Vim modes

When you launch the Vim editor, you're in normal mode. 

To type a text, you need to enter the insert mode by pressing the `i` key. This mode allows you to insert and delete characters in the same way you do in a regular text editor.

To go back to the normal mode from any other mode, just press the `Esc` key. 

# Opens a file in Vim / Vi

```bash
vim file.text
```

# Saves the file without exiting Vim / Vi 

* Press `Esc`
* Type `:w`
* Press `Enter`


To save the file under a different name, type `:w new_filename` and hit `Enter`.

# Saves a file and quits Vim / Vi

`:wq`

# Quits Vim / Vi without saving the file

`:q!`

# Navigating

### Moves the cursor within the whole file

Places the cursor at the start of the file

`gg`

Places the cursor at the end of the file

`G`

Moves one page forward

`Ctrl` + `f`

Moves one page backward

`Ctrl` + `b`


Place the cursor at the line 14 (go to line 14)

`:14`

### Moves the cursor within one line

Places the cursor at the beginning of a line

`0`

Places the cursor at the end of a line

`$`

Moves the cursor forward to the beginning of a word

`w`

Move forward three words

`3w`

Move forward a WORD (any non-whitespace characters)

`W`

Move backward to the beginning of a word

`b`

Move backward three words

`3b`

Move backward a WORD (any non-whitespace characters)

`B`

Jump to the 42nd column of the current line

`42|`


### Moves the cursor within the screen

Places the cursor at the top of the screen

`H`

Places the cursor at the middle of the screen

`M`

Places the cursor at the bottom of the screen

`L`



# Searches for text in the document

Searches for text in the document where keyword is whatever keyword, phrase or string of characters you're looking for.

`/[keyword]`

Searches the text again in whatever direction the last search was.

`n`

Searches your text again in the opposite direction.

`N`

To turn off highlighting (of text search) until the next search.

`:noh`

# Makes the vi/vim text editor show or hide line numbers

`:set number`

`:set nonumber`



# Clear all the document (select all and then delete)

`ggdG`









