---
layout: post
category: Misc     
title: tmux memo  
tagline: by SunHaozhe
tags: 
  - memo
mathjax: true
comments: true
published: true
---

# Basics 

By default the key combination `Ctrl + B` is called the prefix. It must be pressed **and released** before press the specific shortcut key! It is important to know that all the keys are not pressed together, we need to first release the pressed prefix, then press the specific shortcut key. 

On MacOS, the default prefix is also `Ctrl + B`, it is neither `Cmd + B` nor `alt + B`.

为了避免`Ctrl + B`先按到`B`，建议先按`Ctrl`，按着不放的情况下再按`B`。然后两个一起松开，再按第三个键(中间可以间隔很多时间)。

* **Session**: The largest unit managed by tmux. “attach/detach” to the session. Even if you detach from the session, the session continues to run in the background. Multiple sessions can be opened at the same time, each session can have multiple windows. If no name is given, the session will use numbers as its name. 
* **Window**: This is the same tab that exists in the session. You can have multiple windows in one session. You can create and switch windows within a session and switch the entire screen as you move tabs.
* **Pane**: This is the screen unit existing in the window. You can have multiple panes in a window. If you divide the entire screen vertically by two, two panes are created.


# Session 

Start session

```zsh
tmux

# start session with a given name
tmux new -s my_session
```

Exit session

```zsh
exit
```

Detach session

```zsh
<prefix> + d
```

Attach session

```zsh
# convenient if only one session exists 
tmux attach

# attach to a specific session
tmux attach -t [session_name]
```

Session list

```zsh
tmux ls

# if tmux is not started, you'll see
# no server running on [...]
```

Kill session

```zsh
tmux kill-session -t [session_name]
```

# Window


`<prefix> + `:

* `c` create window
* `&` kill the current window
* `w` list windows, which enables switching between windonws
* `n` next window
* `p` previous window

# Pane 

`<prefix> + `:

* `"` split into top/bottom panes
* `%` split into left/right panes
* `x` kill the current pane
* `四个方向键` switch between panes



# Scroll mode

Prefix then `[` then you can use your normal navigation keys to scroll around (eg. `Up Arrow` or `PgDn`). Press `q` to quit scroll mode.








































