---
layout: post
category: Misc     
title: rsync - a remote and local file synchronization tool  
tagline: by SunHaozhe
tags: 
  - System
  - Utilities
mathjax: true
comments: true
published: true
---

`rsync`, which stands for remote sync, is a remote and local file synchronization tool. It uses an algorithm to minimize the amount of data copied by only moving the portions of files that have changed. It’s included on most Linux distributions by default. To use `rsync` to sync with a remote system, you only need SSH access configured between your local and remote machines, as well as `rsync` installed on both systems. 


# Examples

```bash
# push local to remote
rsync -azP ~/dir1 username@remote_host:dir2

# pull remote to local
rsync -azP username@remote_host:dir1 ~/dir2

# push everything excluding things in .gitignore, 
# .git/ is also transferred. 
rsync -azP --filter=":- .gitignore" . username@remote_host:dir2

# use custom identity file (ssh private key)
rsync -azP --filter=":- .gitignore" -e "ssh -i /path/to/private_key" . username@remote_host:dir2
```

In order to synchronize local files with several remote servers, one can create a file called `rsync.sh` and place it in the source folder (e.g. the root directory for git), the content of `rsync.sh` can be:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

rsync -azP --filter=":- .gitignore" . username@remote_host1:target_dir
rsync -azP --filter=":- .gitignore" . username@remote_host2:target_dir
rsync -azP --filter=":- .gitignore" -e "ssh -i /path/to/private_key" . username@remote_host3:target_dir
```

However, you must ensure that the remote target directory does belong to `username`. If the target directory is created by a docker container which runs as root, it is possible that the target directory belongs to root and `username` may not have write access to it. In order to change the owner of the target directory from root to `username`:

* `ssh` into the remote server
* `docker exec` into the docker container (which runs as root)
* Run the command `chown -R owner-user:owner-group target_directory`
* Go back to local system and run `bash rsync.sh`

`owner-user` and `owner-group` can be found be typing `ls -l`. With `ls -l`, `owner-user` goes first, `owner-group` goes second. In the container, it is possible that `owner-user` and `owner-group` showed by `ls -l` are integer IDs instead of human readable string names. If the string names of `owner-user` and `owner-group` are the same, then the integer ID of `owner-group` may be `a+1` supposing that the integer ID of `owner-user` is `a`. 



# Options

* `-r` recursive, necessary for directory syncing
* `-a` a combination flag and stands for “archive”. This flag syncs recursively and preserves symbolic links, special and device files, modification times, groups, owners, and permissions. It’s more commonly used than `-r` and is the recommended flag to use. 
* `-n` or `--dry-run` practice run
* `-v` verbose
* If you’re transferring files that have not already been compressed, like text files, you can reduce the network transfer by adding compression with the `-z` option
* `-P` combines the flags `--progress` and `--partial`. This first flag provides a progress bar for the transfers, and the second flag allows you to resume interrupted transfers
* By default, `rsync` does not delete anything from the destination directory. You can change this behavior with the `--delete` option
* If you prefer to exclude certain files or directories located inside a directory you are syncing, you can do so by specifying them in a comma-separated list following the `--exclude=` option
* `--backup` option can be used to store backups of important files. It’s used in conjunction with the `--backup-dir` option, which specifies the directory where the backup files should be stored
* sync everything excluding things in `.gitignore`: `--filter=":- .gitignore"` (there's a space before "`.gitignore`"), which tells `rsync` to do a directory merge with `.gitignore` files and have them exclude per git's rules. 
* `rsync` uses default identity file present in `~/.ssh/` directory on Linux. In case you want to use a custom rsync file you can use `-e` or `–rsh` option of `rsync`. for example `-e "ssh -i /path/to/private_key"`



# Trailing slash "/"

A trailing slash (`/`) at the end of the source path signifies the contents of the source path. Without the trailing slash, the source path, including the directory, would be placed within the target path.


```bash
# only the files within the directory are transferred
rsync -a dir1/ dir2

# the directory itself is transferred
rsync -a dir1 dir2
```

```bash
rsync -anv dir1/ dir2
```

```
./
file1
file2
file3
file4
file5
file6
file7
file8
file9
```

```bash
rsync -anv dir1 dir2 
```




```
dir1/
dir1/file1
dir1/file2
dir1/file3
dir1/file4
dir1/file5
dir1/file6
dir1/file7
dir1/file8
dir1/file9
```





































